welcome back ladies gentleman's to
another episode of CHP parked for this
time the history of Chinese philosophy I
hope everyone enjoyed that eaching
episode last week this time we're
picking up where we left off earlier in
part two we're still in the Classical
period of Chinese philosophy all the
oldest and most sacred texts from the
Shang and Western Zhuo dynasties have
been picked over the last few centuries
and that along came Confucius who saved
the day when everyone was starting to
ask what the heck to these old books
have to do with anything to do with us
in our day Confucius reintroduced these
traditions and shone a spotlight on
these texts and taught that these words
were still relevant I want to say right
now although Confucius made a big splash
late in his day and had attracted a lot
of talented students not everyone
thought his teachings were so great and
one of those credited with being the
first major naysayer of Confucianism was
matzah also known as Mordy he lived from
470 to 391 BCE which means he was born
about a decade after the death of
Confucius which also made matzah a
contemporary of Socrates and Plato over
in the West like Confucius matzah came
from Liu from a non aristocratic
background and like all these other
philosophers he was an official served
in the state of song and had acquired
quite a following especially among the
military men who were in the employ of
various feudal lords these were as I
said educated men and like most of these
Knights errant they didn't have any
aristocratic blood running through their
veins
they were Maude PSA's core followers and
it said they were a very organised
militant lot a very disciplined
community almost like a cult with
considerable geographic reach and each
group was overseen by a grandmaster
matzo was very big in his day just as
well-known in the land as Confucius had
been when he was still alive
and he had a solid reputation of being
someone who practiced what he preached
as Confucius idealized Yao
Maud's as role model was you the great
founder of the Chou dynasty more zzz's
philosophy is called mo ism and his
followers mo as' and mo ism is MOH is em
they all hung their hat on several basic
tenets taught in the 53 chapters that
make up the work for which he is known
the eponymous Lee called the mod su
master more said there was only one
standard for everything one objective
moral standard above all for right and
for wrong the moths sums up master mores
teaching in 10 theses like all these
books the author and the true creator of
the content probably not the same people
the signature aspect of Mo ISM was
mortis concept of universal love or
inclusive care he taught that was the
answer all people should love all people
equally that was the only way to solve
the terrible problems plaguing society
in these warring States years and Maud
su was very anti-war and despite the
militant background of his core
followers he said the only war is worth
fighting were those defensive in nature
this quasi religious militant community
of Mo asst would sometimes go out and
aid those states and dire need you know
due to invasion by a bigger neighbor it
would provide all this expertise in
defending against aggressors mo as'
embraced pacifism and for this reason
Maud says thought was the preferred
choice of all pacifists make love not
war would have been Montes slogan you
may consider all this anti-war universal
love thinking to be a good thing but
back then they were considered crackpots
and way out on the political fringe some
government officials even consider them
anarchists the legalists who we'll get
to later scoffed at moths
and assured him his vision of universal
love was a pipe dream and that war would
always end up being the final arbiter
and political struggles the moas really
turned their nose up at Confucianism and
let me say the feelings were mutual
Maud's had taught that all of this
teaching from these dusty old books just
couldn't be more useless and impractical
in their day he described a Confucian
estate indolent and arrogant
self-indulgent in drinking and eating
and too lazy to work he often suffers
from hunger and cold and is in danger of
freezing and starvation but lacks the
ability to avert them he behaves like a
beggar grasps like a hamster stares
blankly like a he-goat
and rises up like a pig when the
gentlemen all laugh at him he becomes
angry and exclaims what two
undisciplined men know about a good
Confucian like me in spring and summer
he begs for grain and after the five
grains are gathered he resorts to
conducting funerals when a death takes
place in a rich family he will rejoice
greatly for it is his opportunity for
clothing and food end quote
Confucius lionized the old sages in the
old ways but Maude's has said they had
no practical place in society and he
sought to replace Confucian thought was
something less complicated and more
approachable matzoh said the Confucian
is ruined the world in several ways
firstly Confucian astre ejected that
gods existed
Monza believed in gods ghosts and
spirits and that ten or heaven was the
ultimate moral guide for humankind
he also said Confucian aswer too strict
with ceremonies and rituals he noted for
example the three-year mourning period
for one's parents is specially
impractical
not to mention wasteful matzah was also
totally against the Confucian idea that
everyone's fate was already
predetermined and that everyone should
know their place Maud's I said this kind
of thinking was totally out of step with
the times
you see the people who generally
followed the Confucian way and those of
the most persuasion saw eye to eye on
about as much as hardcore liberals and
conservatives do today in the US for
example Maude says notion of universal
all-embracing love was totally rejected
by the Confucian 'us Maude's a-- said
love everyone equally confucius thought
this couldn't be more out of line how
could you love a stranger the same as a
parent or a relative
Confucianism called for discriminating
love they were gradations as far as who
should matter more to you and of your
relations who was due a greater degree
of love Louis were characterized by
their commitment to these 10 theses
Maude's are believed people naturally
gravitated towards correct behavior
selfishness was the root of all evil and
all embracing love was the antidote to
that to ensure this kind of behavior
education was necessary to keep people
ethical and moral a sampling of these
most 10 theses essentially promoted the
following points of view there should be
a meritocracy high up positions should
be open to everyone it should not be
denied to people of low birth who
demonstrate the correct moral behavior
and competence matzoh was against
wasteful spending and called for
moderation in all matters concerning
luxuries and unnecessary expenditures of
which elaborate funerals music and the
arts were considered part of that
category rituals to matzoh said that
even though they didn't work and were
too inflexible yeah there was still
something positive for the way they
brought families and all of society
together and the shared participation of
these rituals Confucian aesthetic I not
so said matzah heaven rewarded the good
and punished the bad and as far as his
political philosophy was concerned
Maud's uh said it was the state's role
to define the standard
no surprise the mo is favored
dictatorship over democracy and when we
get to Monza in a moment you'll see he's
no fan of democracy either Malta
maintained that a dictatorship was the
best way to set up a government but that
the dictator served at the will of the
people and of heaven and the reason the
whole yellow and Way River Valley was
awash in chaos was because of the dearth
of capable rulers a rulers main job
description was to spare the people from
chaos and to govern with the idea of
impartial concern for the welfare of the
people
impartial concern everybody was the same
MO ISM though it had a significant
impact on early Chinese thought didn't
survive as a major school it wasn't
outright rejected history books all seem
to suggest that after the Qin Dynasty mo
ism died off and its various
philosophies absorbed by other schools
and why mo ism didn't survive beyond the
Qin and we'll get to that and good time
there's nothing wrong with imagining the
kind of utopian world that wants a
envisioned like Confucius he said it all
began at the top with the leader there
had to be someone who was going to set a
solemn example for the people and from
his example all of society will fall in
line and everyone will help one another
well without anyone looking let's
quietly and surreptitiously sneak out
the back door here with mo ISM and move
on to another philosopher thirty years
younger than Watsa but their lives had
plenty of overlap he lived from 440 to
360 BCE again Socrates Plato times he
lived sort of in-between matzah and
Monza and his name was Jung Joo as I
familiarized myself with Jung Joo I
couldn't help marveling that he was
teaching these words more than 24
centuries ago and the same words could
have been said today in 2017 Jung Joo
had an interesting and colorful way of
looking at the world and how humankind
should conduct themselves first
wherever you read about yangju the
caveat has always mentioned that says
everything there is to know about him
slim pickins baby is all as it is - it
was all set by his enemies guys like
monks we only know of him through the
words written about him by others and no
one was terribly complimentary Mozza
thought Confucius was wrong
yangju thought both of those two were
wrong What did he say that was so
eye-opening
enlighten me 5th century BCE and into
the 4th yong-joo some dis philosophy up
in a way that reminded me of what
Alvy Singer said in Annie Hall I'm
paraphrasing but he compared life to the
quality of the onboard meals you used to
get on an airline the food was terrible
and such small portions - meaning life
was hard and filled with misery and
before you knew it it was over all too
soon
therefore Jung said it was
humankind sole purpose in life to
counteract this potential misery by
pursuing pleasure and to enjoy a good
time Jung Joo said there's no God
there's no afterlife this is it once
you're gone you're gone and no matter
how many monuments to your own personal
glory you leave behind you ain't gonna
be there to hear people pass it on the
street and talk about what a great
person you were wise people will accept
that they are like a tumbleweed blown
wherever the forces of nature take them
furthermore he completely rejected
Confucius moths and all these ruse
collars who taught about humans inherent
virtue and all embracing love who are
they kidding
Jung Joo even went as far as to say all
this talk of ethics and how people
should act is just a ruse or an excuse
for the simple-minded to be manipulated
by the educated elites like Confucius
young Chui agreed that those were good
times in the early Jo but yang too
parted ways with master Kong when he
said everything went south in China
after all these philosophers burst on
the scene wandering all over the country
spreading their
impractical theoretical nonsense the
Marquis story from the life of yong-joo
that sort of encapsulates his view and
how we should all live our lives
concerns the stories of SH wooden you
and Confucius as well as the two poster
boys for evil sovereigns remember them
from part one Chia and Jo Xin the final
rulers of sha and Xiang respectively
young Jews reasoning was this he said
such morally stand up guys like yo and
chuan never had an easy day in their
lives in trying to achieve all they did
and helping the people life was a daily
struggle with sadness and suffering you
the great news story was well known to
deal with the floods he was on the clock
constantly never taking a break even
forsaking his own family in his
determination to tame the Yellow River a
lot of good is morals and virtue at it
for him and Xuan Confucius in the sages
own lifetime he was mocked disrespected
and ignored wherever he went
all these sages were perfect examples of
virtue yet look at how they struggled
and never got to enjoy any of the fruits
of their righteousness young Chui
pointed out that those men had been
revered and hailed as perfect models for
everyone to follow but for what asks
young they're dead and gone and
therefore oblivious to all the accolades
that have been heaped on them after
their passing young Chui then points to
King Chia of sha he inherited wealth got
to be King lived a life of pleasure and
debauchery same with Jo Xin they did
nothing except pursue a life of selfish
pleasure they died
we all die and in death their venality
and evil lives on always pointed to as a
reminder to people about what happens
when you act like they did but Jung Joo
says those two kings are as dead as xuan
and confucius and they have no idea that
they have been turned into role models
for licentiousness and evil who we had
the better life in the end Chia and Jo
Xin
for the Paragons of virtue who are held
up to all quassia people as the models
for how we should think and conduct
ourselves
Jung Joo said people should just act
naturally in your own self-interest and
don't blindly follow these social
niceties do what's best for you these
rituals traditions beliefs and listening
to these sages from 500 years ago fat it
ain't gonna help you if you see
something take it if it's gonna make you
happy or give you pleasure thankfully
for cone Civ he did not live to hear
Jung Joo expound on this rather
hedonistic philosophy hedonism that's
the pursuit of pleasure and happiness
pleasure is the highest good
this was Epicureanism embarrassing
relative boy what a world that would be
if we all thought like yang Chu but from
a Taoist perspective he wasn't so bad if
self-preservation was the innate way for
humans to act then why go against what
only came natural
well Confucius didn't live to hear young
Chui but monks did and there's his
famous snippet from the monks where he
hella ments that quote the words of yang
true and multi fill the world if you
listen to people's discourses about it
you will find that they have adopted the
views of one or the other
now Yang's principle is each for himself
which does not acknowledge the claims of
the sovereign mores principle is to love
all equally which does not acknowledge
the peculiar affection due to a father
to acknowledge neither King nor father
is to be in the state of a beast if
their principles are not stopped and the
principles of Confucius set forth their
perverse speaking will delude the people
and stop up the path of benevolence and
righteousness I am alarmed by these
things and address myself to the defense
of the doctrines of the former sages and
to oppose young and more I Drive away
their life centrist expressions so that
such perverse speakers may not be able
to show themselves when sages shall rise
up again they will not change my word
end quote monks uh ladies and gentlemen
mums it wasn't the only fourth century
BCE philosopher too heavily dis Jung Joo
Han Fei Lee su and others rejected this
thought but as I said before I started
rambling about Jung Joo all we know
about him is what others wrote about him
none of his work survives like youths
from Part one and many others throughout
history we only know of them and can
read of their work only those bits that
later writers wrote and whatever fate
allowed to survive into our time so Jung
Joo passed in 360 BCE let's get back on
a Confucian as track for the rest of
this episode and look at Confucianism
after Confucius the two greatest
interpreters of Confucius during the
Classical period were munsi and shin-soo
let's focus on master mung first monks
are born monk came from the state of Cho
so bordered Luo to the south and today
would be part of southern Shandong he
lived from 372 to 289 BCE roughly the
time of Aristotle in Greece and young
Alexander the Great
we're in the warring States period in
China still and as the countdown to 221
BCE gets closer the times just kept
getting worse some older Chinese around
the world who went to a traditional
Chinese school might remember the
stories of Hmong cz's mother pounded
into them when they were young
Monza's mother hmong muth she was put on
the highest possible pedestal and was
forever pointed to as a living
representation of virtue and what it
means in the traditional sense to be the
perfect mother she was perhaps China's
first tiger mom lots of stories
featuring Hmong cz's mother and a few
could Chung you also in fact monks in
general he appeared and more Chinese
sayings than almost anyone this is not a
character that was unique to Hmong rule
there were other women who were
held up and praised as these idealized
women who was also a mother and who puts
everyone else's needs and interests
before themselves who through their
tears sacrifices and hardships clears
the path for her children to be good and
decent and to go on and thrive that's
nothing new in Rome for example we can
point to Cornelia Africana mother of
Tiberius and Gaius Cornelia Africana
isn't a household name but when history
buffs hear about the so called mother of
the Gracchi they know what those four
words signify oppressed Chinese women
throughout the centuries I guess have
monks 'as mother to thank for making as
big a deal as she did about the three
obediences these three obediences didn't
necessarily enslave Chinese women for
2,000 years but let's say it contributed
no small amount to the limiting of
career options that women had yep we
have Hmong moo-hoo uh turd the words
quote it does not belong to a woman to
determine anything for herself but she
is subject to the rule of the three
obediences when young she has to obey
her parents when married she has to obey
her husband when a widow she has to obey
her son end quote these were known as
the sons Hong Sudha the three obediences
and the four virtues not just these
three obediences to the men in their
life women had to maintain these four
virtues these suits that was morality
the physical charm wrong propriety and
speech yen and efficiency in needlework
gong the most famous early monks of
story is the one behind the old Chinese
saying mung mu son Chen
Monza's mother moves three times it was
just the two of them growing up no
father
Hmong move among his mother settled down
first at a shack near a cemetery and
noticed right away little Hmong sir
engaging and pretend ceremonies for the
dead so she picked up and moved to a
place near
near a thriving market town but before
long she saw her son acting like some
merchant and always talking about money
you know what she did she pulled up
stakes for a third time and found a
place that had a school as its closest
landmark and when Munson's mother saw
her son trying to learn and show some
manners and decency she decided she
finally found the right place mung Moo
sun-shin yeah this whole idea of Chinese
mothers who want the best education for
their children trust me that didn't
start with Amy cha it went back at least
as far as mung Moo the mother of Monza
and although it went against the
Confucian idea of simplicity and
frugality when monks his mother passed
her filial son gave her the glorious
send-off she deserved
I'm sure Maud so wouldn't have approved
master Kong simply resting on his own
laurels most likely today would not be
gracing the name of almost 500 Confucius
Institutes around the world
we remember Confucius because he
received a little help along the way
first from his immediate disciples and
then from munsi followed by shinza and
then I cast by don't come true but let's
not get too ahead of ourselves they were
the first ones to begin the process of
interpreting what it was Confucius
taught when he was alive remember Kong
foods off' didn't write anything down
moans Allah was born after Confucius had
already been gone for a hundred and
seven years I mentioned at the outset he
supposedly studied under Confucius's
grandson the first thing munsi did when
he left the nest was to hang out his own
shingle and open up a school having
studied under someone like su was like
bragging you had a Harvard or Yale
degree so Monza was able to attract a
lot of students many who went on to
great things in government and civil
service Monza was no different from any
of these philosophers anxious to advise
rulers and ways to manage their
enterprise that would bring the greatest
amount of prosperity peace and stability
and Happiness to his lands from about
323 to 314 B
seee Monza did his wandering he went to
chi first and found employment with the
ruler shish Renkin he accepted an
honorary post and refused any salary but
in advising Duke Shen Monza soon figured
out just like Confucius he wasn't being
taken seriously so monks have moved on
but she Shen Gong called him back and
then monks are soon saw that it was
futile trying to turn this militant King
into a benevolent and virtuous leader
this Duke Shen had all kinds of designs
on other states and was looking to
acquire some kingdoms and if any of you
are listeners to the Chinese sayings
podcast you may remember season 1
episode 4 un mu chill you if you listen
to that it told the story of Monza
advising Duke Shen about the futility of
all this ruling by force and warring on
his neighbors monks implored him to make
peace not war and to rule his people
with benevolence and morality and to
serve as a model for his people then not
only his subjects and she would repair
him but others too would flock to Qi as
well just to call him their ruler well
it's not surprising that monks
ultimately got canned by Qi Shang Gong
he didn't like monks his pacifism so
like all these itinerant philosophers
Monza moved on to the next place always
vigilant for that philosopher king in
the rough who only needed monks is
finishing touches to turn him into King
one reborn like Confucius and without
many a philosopher Monza searched in
vain in the end he just settled down and
returned to teaching besides teaching he
wrote about all the rulers he had rubbed
elbows with during his travels and
discussed the conversations he had and
these were all part of the book that
bears his name
the monks ooh it's one of the classics
some say this was one of those works
that was actually written by the alleged
author but 300 BCE wth Kay Monza taught
the original
goodness of human nature innately humans
were good he called it shin shun like
Aristotle and later John Locke's tabula
rasa people were born good they are made
bad thanks to poor leadership setting a
bad example a bad example that was
followed by those who didn't know any
better
Munson said either philosophers must
become kings or Kings must become
philosophers
Monza's philosophy claims that human
beings have four beginnings here's how
we put them quote the feeling of
commiseration is the beginning of human
heartedness the feeling of shame and
dislike is the beginning of
righteousness the feeling of modesty and
yielding is the beginning of propriety
the sense of right and wrong is the
beginning of wisdom and quote these four
beginnings are also called the four
virtues some in the West have referred
to them as Hmong z's four cardinal
virtues all people are born with them
these innate ethical predispositions and
throughout one's life it was essential
to nurture and develop these four
virtues so that in time they will become
the four constant virtues by further
developing the four constant virtues one
can achieve sage hood these four
virtuous qualities benevolence
righteousness propriety and wisdom we
all have it but if you don't use it you
lose it
mungs would tell you of the four virtues
benevolence and righteousness were the
two most important so you can see why
Monza would completely reject someone
like young Chui Monza was an optimist he
said it was a moral universe that humans
inhabited and it all began at the top
with virtuous ruler who ruled through
benevolence and set an example for
uprightness and propriety for all his
subjects to see sure people cared about
many of these pleasures itemized by
young Chui but Monza said people were
also ethical and knew what the right
thing to do was
Confucius put his focus on the
individual and to a lesser extent on the
state Monza's focus was the state it all
began with the ruler
and not only that on the other hand
monks had taught what the qualities that
a ruler must have and exhibit he also
was very Jeffersonian in his belief that
if rulers became inapt or any GS or Joe
Sheen's appeared on the scene the people
have the right to remove them even kill
him if it comes to that these were very
radical ideas for their time and because
Monza was well known for this line of
political philosophy the hongwu emperor
after he founds the Ming Dynasty in 1368
will ban him demoting monks in the
Confucian temple yeah early Ming mungs
will have to lay low and remain in the
doldrums until he makes a comeback
yeah the early Ming ampere errs they
didn't like that Jeffersonian belief
about the tree of liberty needing to be
refreshed with the blood of patriots and
tyrants every so often and as far as
democracy goes and that whole notion of
government of the people and by the
people amongst I didn't go for that he
thought that monarchy was the only way
to go why he said in order for the
system to work all people had to be
educated if not the system breaks down
and there's chaos nothing out Trump's a
benevolent and virtuous ruler leading by
example that's all it takes one single
philosopher King in fact Monza said
there were two kinds of rulers one was a
Wang and one was a ba a Wang ruled by
virtue and benevolence basically how
Confucius thought they should conduct
themselves wang means king and the ba
they rule by force this would be like a
feudal lord or military hegemon munsi
was vehemently anti-war he thought it
was a crime and nothing good ever came
of it but certainly no one deserved to
be lionized for their military
achievements as far as Martha was
concerned
Monza's major beef with him was that
impartial caring thing to Monza putting
the extent of your total caring on a
stranger the same way you would your own
flesh and blood let alone your parents
cha has Tom Sawyer would have said Monza
was the shining star of the idealist
stick wing of confucianism dee-lighted
two tractors for one thing monkss
thought was criticized by many and for
being artificial they said people
weren't born good they had to work hard
to be good all this morality and
propriety was all artificial and forced
not the natural way people acted well
we're gonna close things out this
episode was shinza he was another major
Confucian estai
with everything monkss said especially
about the innate goodness of human
nature
everyone knows Confucius everyone knows
monks how come soon so didn't get a
latinized name maybe for this reason he
remains in the shadow of his - more
famous predecessors Shin kwanghee was
born a native of child but he made his
name and she he lived from 3:13 to 238
BCE passing away 17 years before Qin
Shihuang enjoyed the sweet smell of
success so we can say he lived during
the last decades of the warring States
period he was 24 when months have died
but let me say there's quite a disparity
and shines' dates as far as when
historians say he actually lived and
died like Monza console and others
shinza did his tour of the realm as well
calling on rulers princes anyone in
authority who would see him like those
other great thinkers
shinza would try to proffer his advice
son the best ways to end the misery
violence and bloodletting of the eastern
jo warring states period but this
philosophers renowned really ended up
being due to his stature at the chi shot
academy shinza left his mark as one of
the greatest philosophers to come out of
this geez joshua cole this institution
was set up in 318 BCE by yes Shashank
own one in the same as the ruler who
wasted Monza's time yeah he didn't
listen to Hmong sir but he did act as
the benefactor of this school that
attracted la crme de la crme of pre
Qing Dynasty teachers and philosophers
this was China's first think tank
they're the most brilliant and
innovative minds and what comprise China
that far back came together to teach to
learn to loaf drink tea complain and
argue all their respective schools of
thought let's look at shinza and
particularly through the prism of Monza
since he's so fresh in our minds right
now
they were both dyed-in-the-wool
Confucian Asst but they didn't see eye
to eye and a few key points and what do
we remember shinza for well Lauda is
mentioned for the first time in shines'
work by far when you think of shinza
well do you remember how moong Jesus
said people by nature are born good
they're corrupted by all the blowback
from having an inferior ruler monks are
maintained one had to focus and work
deliberately to retain their innate
goodness
well shinza he said just the opposite
and in this respect he was in lockstep
with young Chui
shinza said human nature was innately
bad human nature's natural inclination
is to be selfish and look out for number
one first and foremost innately people
are in a sense evil and self-centered
and from that base he taught his
philosophy after all if people were as
munsi said innately good then who would
need these sage Kings and all these
boring rituals and strict etiquette
shinza said don't blame the government
for all the ills of society they have
nothing to do with the people's innate
goodness it was up to the people to
become good and this was attained by
basically following Confucian thought
this included the rituals and ceremonies
shinza said even though most everyone
was lip-syncing and artificially
embracing Confucianism and rituals and
their daily lives it was important to
the masses of people especially at the
state level having rulers carry out
these elaborate rituals no matter to
heaven or to ancient ancestors they were
carrying out something that was very
important to the people who were unable
to express these emotions and feelings
in this kind of way it you
nighted ruler and people whether it
worked or not was immaterial
shinza had written about how these
rituals bound society as one but he said
quote you pray for rain and it rains
why for no particular reason I say it is
just as though you had not prayed for
rain and it rained anyway and quote
but shinza and Monza agreed on the idea
that no matter born good or born evil a
person can become a sage and to do this
one needed to be disciplined and live
their life in the most deliberate way
not only talking the talk both
philosophers believed the transformative
powers of Confucian sincerity ritual and
learning could turn someone into a sage
and keep society on an even keel as for
monks is for virtues for beginnings that
human nature contains not so said shinza
no for virtues but there was one thing
that humans were born with that was the
key to rising above their innate desires
for personal profit and sensual
pleasures and that was intelligence
intelligence is the key to becoming good
the learning which is the natural
byproduct of intelligence should be used
by the people to reform their innate
less than savory human nature it would
reform them transform them Monza's said
all this learning was like ongoing
education for what was already good
within you monkss said becoming a Yao or
Ashwin was possible because people were
born good and if one could sustain this
goodness throughout their life they
might one day look upon y'all and Xuan
as equals soon as I said nobody's born
at y'all but people had intelligence and
if they use this they could one day
become a Yong I read that of this school
of rueful asif e confucius all this
disciples and their disciples mung says
shinza monza is considered the left wing
of the ideology and shinza is the right
wing just saying all of shines'
philosophy is contained
then I know you guessed it another work
named after the author the shinza this
32 chapter work has a somewhat unique
claim to fame amongst the classics it
said that at least 25 of the chapters
were actually written by shinza and a
lot of it was written in essay style and
very nicely two works attributed to
Monza and Konza were usually written in
dialogue for him
what shinza did that separated himself
amongst us was to look at the times they
lived in and he synthesized other
elements of thought that weren't
necessarily Confucian in their origin he
picked around other schools of thought
for ideas that could be copied and
pasted onto Confucianism in addition to
Confucian ethics
he studied how others view death expects
of metaphysics political theory
philosophy of language and education
whatever was applicable to Confucianism
and enhanced it as an ideology we're
going to talk about Taoism soon and the
dahle the Confucian Dolf is not the same
as the loud sejong's adult monks as dull
was more in line with the Taoist and
that the doll was the way of heaven and
nature shines' Dolf focused on humanity
this doll or way was the doll of human
behavior the way one is supposed to act
in maintaining a harmonious society
jINSA said nature is nature in heaven as
heaven and nothing can change that it's
a waste of time to speculate about it
shines' philosophy was closer to home
concerned only with the practical
aspects of humanity the human way the
human doll a way of behaving okay we
will most certainly come back to shinza
later on I wanted to introduce them to
you and I hope you'll remember him
despite that troublesome X in the pinyin
spelling in his name
coins Monza shinza these were the three
Giants of the pre Qing Dynasty Rou
school of philosophy I didn't say this
but shins
is famous for one other thing during the
Qin Dynasty this was a good thing but in
the Han Dynasty it wasn't shinza had two
famous students when he was teaching at
the g-shot Academy and Qi state
these were Han Fei and Lisa we're gonna
start with them in the next episode and
discuss legalism and the state of the
art for the hundred schools of thought
during the brief but oppressive reign of
China's first imperial ruler of a
unified Chinese Empire changer Huang it
was the teaching of these two shining
stars of shinza Han Fei and Lisa who
provided all the requisite ideology that
Sheen sure Huang needed to rule his
empire all for next time and to perhaps
titillate you went to sticking with the
series once we're finished with legalism
and the fate of Chinese philosophy
during the Qin we're gonna back up into
the eastern Joe again and look at da ism
and then we'll pick up again in the Han
until that time this is Laszlo
Montgomery signing off from the lovely
town of Los Angeles California part 5
next week and when I say next week let
me say this one it's already done
recorded got the transcript filed away
all I have to do is press the switch
from wherever I am in the world and
you'll hear what happened after shin-soo
take care everyone I'll be back in a
hundred and sixty eight hours with
another philosophical episode here at
the China history podcast
you